---
layout: indexed_content
title: '37th INSDC meeting report: June 4-6 2024, Bethesda, USA'
start_date: 2024-06-04
end_date: 2024-06-06
place: NCBI
lang: en
category: insdc_meeting
---

## 37th INSDC meeting report: June 4-6 2024, Bethesda, USA

[International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration (INSDC)](/insdc/index-e.html ) hold the international meeting every year.    
In 2024, the meeting was held  4-6 June at NCBI to discuss practical matters to maintain and update nucleotide sequence data archives.    
The outcomes of the meeting are summarized below.    

### The Items Discussed and To Be Studied

#### Broaden INSDC membership

Founding Members of INSDC have enhanced the website, [http://www.insdc.org/](http://www.insdc.org/ ), 
to provide comprehensive information on how interested parties from around the world can participate in the INSDC.    
The INSDC website now provides a formalized Founders Arrangement and a Membership Arrangement to broaden membership 
and attract qualified nucleotide sequence databases.     

See [INSDC introduces enhanced website aiming to broaden INSDC membership](/news/en/2024-05-21-e.html ).

#### Regarding the requirement to state the location and date of sample collection

INSDC have discussed some practical matters for the requirement to state the location and date of sample collection since [2022](/activities/insdc_meeting/2022-e.html ).    
Full-scale of the requirement is planned to start from December 2024.

See also followings:     
- [The requirement to state the location and date of sample collection](/news/en/2024-02-01-e.html )
- [INSDC spatiotemporal metadata - minimum standards update (03-03-2023)](https://www.insdc.org/news/insdc-spatiotemporal-metadata-minimum-standards-update-03-03-2023/ )


#### TPA:experimental and TPA: inferential submission types will no longer be accepted as new submissions

For  [Third Party (TPA) data](/ddbj/tpa-e.html ), due to the complexity of the submission process and changes to the technology used to analyze data, 
INSDC will no longer accept new submissions of type TPA: experimental and TPA: inferential after January 2025.    
INSDC will continue to accept new TPA-assembly sequences.     

See also followings:     
- [From January 2025 TPA-Exp and TPA-Inf submission types will no longer be accepted as new submissions](/news/en/2024-09-05-e.html )
- [From January 2025 TPA-Exp and TPA-Inf submission types will no longer be accepted as new submissions (03-09-2024)](https://www.insdc.org/news/from-january-2025-tpa-exp-and-tpa-inf-submission-types-will-no-longer-be-accepted-as-new-submissions-03-09-2024/ )


### Changes of the rules for describing features and qualifiers  <a name="2024-ft"></a>

- The /country qualifier has been renamed to [/geo_loc_name](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#geo_loc_name ).    
      See [The /country qualifier will be renamed to /geo_loc_name](/news/en/2024-05-09-e.html ).

- The following qualfiers will no longer be accepted with new submissions:      
      /clone_lib, /identified_by, /pop_variant, /sub_clone, /sub_strain, /tissue_lib

- We are discussing to merge two qualifiers, [/bio_material](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#bio_material ) 
and  [/specimen_voucher](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#specimen_voucher ). 

