---
layout: indexed_content
title: 19th ICM： May 15-17 2006, Bethesda, USA
start_date: 2006-05-15
end_date: 2006-05-17
place: Bethesda, USA
lang: en
category: icm
related_pages:
  - title: 2006
    url: activities/icm/2006-e
---

## 2006 <a name="2006"></a>

### 19th ICM: May 15-17 2006, Bethesda, USA

International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration (INSDC), the
three data banks; DDBJ, EMBL-Bank/EBI, GenBank/NCBI hold the
international collaborators meeting every year.  
In 2006, the meeting was held at GenBank in Bethesda, Maryland, USA,
15-17 May.

DDBJ, EMBL-Bank and GenBank reported each bank activities in the last
year, discussed practical matters to maintain and to update INSDC.  
The outcomes of the meeting are summarized below.

#### The Items; Discussed and To Be Studied

No restriction for using INSDC data  
:  INSDC confirmed that we should not accept any submissions with restrictions in free public access.

Non-submission of data to INSDC  
:  There are sequence and annotation data, although published, but not available at INSD. We will be in touch with authors and editors to remind them of the importance of submitting sequences and annotation to the databases.

INSDC homepage  
:  Since 2005, INSDC has made public its web site; [//www.insdc.org/](http://www.insdc.org/).The three banks agreed with that we are to add more contents for the web site.

INSDSeq-XML  
:  Since 2003, we have discussed the schema of this common XML description named INSDSeq-XML. Since 2005, three banks have trially exchanged data in INSDSeq-XML format. Thoroughly reviewing of the trial, we discussed some improvement of INSDSeq-XML to provide it as common XML description among three banks.

locus\_tag  
:  Since 2003, the /[locus\_tag](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#locus_tag) qualifier has been used as the identifier for the tracking purpose by many genome projects. In the past, we allowed submitters to use the flexible prefixes for their locus\_tag. Since 2005, to keep uniquness through INSDC, we have disccused to manage and to assign prefixes of locus\_tag.The framework to assign the locus\_tag prefixes will be available in the near future

#### Changes to the Feature Table Document: Features and Qualifiers <a name="2006-ft"></a>

-   New amino acid abbreviations, "J" and "O"

    1\) Pyl (O); Pyrrolysine  
    :  The 22nd naturally encoded amino acid, pyrrolysine was discovered.  
      The JCBN IUBMB-IUPAC (the Joint Commission on Biochemical
      Nomenclature of IUBMB and IUPAC) has agreed that Pyl (the
      three-letter abbreviation), O (the one-letter abbreviation) will be
      recommended for this amino acid.

    2\) Xle (J); Leucine or Isoleucine  
    :  The residue abbreviations, Xle (the three-letter abbreviation) and J
      (the one-letter abbreviation) are reserved for the case that cannot
      experimentally distinguish leucine from isoleucine.  
      So, we are to add the following abbreviations;

    | Abbreviation | 1 letter abbreviation | Amino acid name       |
    |-------|----------------|-----------------------|
    | Xle          | J                     | Leucine or Isoleucine |
    | Pyl          | O                     | Pyrrolysine           |

    INSDC will use "J" and "O" for the [amino
    acid](/ddbj/code-e.html#amino-1) sequences of
    /[translation](/ddbj/cds-e.html#translation) qualifiers in
    [CDS](/ddbj/cds-e.html) features.

-   Two old qualifiers, /transposon and /insertion\_seq, will be
    integrated into a new qualifier,
    /[mobile\_element](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#mobile_element). The
    qualifier will be legal on only
    [repeat\_region](/ddbj/features-e.html#repeat_region) feature as
    below;

        Format:
              /mobile_element="<mobile_element_type>[:<mobile_element_name>]"
        Example:
              /mobile_element="transposon:Tnp9"

    The specified value for &lt;mobile\_element\_type&gt; is either of
    followings;

    -   transposon
    -   retrotransposon
    -   integron
    -   insertion sequence
    -   non-LTR retrotransposon
    -   SINE
    -   MITE
    -   LINE
    -   other

-   "viral cRNA" is added to the specified values for the qualifier,
    /[mol\_type](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#mol_type) that indicates
    molecule type of the sequence *in vivo* on the
    [source](/ddbj/features-e.html#source) feature.

    Definition of "viral cRNA"  
    cRNA is a plus-strand copy of a minus strand RNA genome which serves
    as a template to make viral progeny genomes

-   The /[operon](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#operon) qualifier will be
    legal on [rRNA](/ddbj/features-e.html#rRNA) feature.

-   /[EC\_number](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#EC_number) should be more
    controlled.

    Furthermore, we will accept the symbol "n" (initial of "new") to
    indicate that the code is not available now and will be assigned
    later.

-   For the values of
    /[PCR\_primers](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#PCR_primers) qualifier,
    modified base codes.

    Modified base codes (i.e. "i"; inosine) are required to be described
    with enclosing in the brackets; "&lt;" and "&gt;" for the values of
    /PCR\_primers.

        Example:
              /PCR_primer="fwd_name; hoge1, fwd_seq;cgkgtgtatcttact
              rev_name; hoge2, rev_seq;cg<i>gtgtatcttact"

-   [The rules for the description of location](/ddbj/location-e.html)
    will be slightly changed.

    The use of range "(m.n)" descriptor will be discontinued.