---
layout: indexed_content
title: '20th ICM: May 21-23 2007, Hinxton, UK'
start_date: 2007-05-21
end_date: 2007-05-23
place: Hinxton, UK
lang: en
category: icm
related_pages:
  - title: DDBJ Publications Archive
    url: /activities/archives-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff papers (2009-)
    url: /activities/index-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff presentations (2009-)
    url: /activities/index-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff presentations (2001-2008)
    url: /activities/past-presentations-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff papers（1996-2008）
    url: /activities/past-papers-e.html
  - title: DDBJ Annual Reports
    url: /activities/index-e.html
  - title: Patent column from DDBJ
    url: /activities/patent-e.html
  - title: DDBJ Mail Magazine
    url: /subscribe-ddbj-e.html
---

## 2007  <a name="2007"></a>

### 20th ICM: May 21-23 2007, Hinxton, UK

International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration (INSDC), the
three data banks; DDBJ, EMBL-Bank/EBI, GenBank/NCBI hold the
international collaborators meeting every year.  
In 2007, the meeting was held at EMBL-Bank/EBI in UK, 21-23 May.

DDBJ, EMBL-Bank, GenBank reported each bank activities in the last year,
discussed practical matters to maintain and to update INSDC. The
outcomes of the meeting are summarized below.

#### The Items; Discussed and To Be Studied

INSDC web site  
:  The three banks agree with that we are to add some samples for standardized submissions as the contents of the [INSDC web site](http://www.insdc.org)

Alternative assemblies  
:  With large amount of reads of draft sequences available in the public, scientists are asking if they can submit assemblies of the reads to INSDC. We need to develop a policy for who can submit alternative assemblies and what we would do with the data once it is submitted i.e. would we start a [TPA](/ddbj/tpa-e.html) -like database for alternative assemblies? Three banks would ask to the advisors meeting.

GSC and MIGS  
:  The Genomic Standards Consortium (GSC) is to support the community-based development of a standard datasets of information about complete genomes and metagenomic ones. It is currently working together towards the 'Minimal Information about a Genome Sequence(MIGS)' specification. Overall, the three banks agreed that a cooperative approach to GSC activities was preferred over a competitive approach.

EST/GSS clone library ID  
:  A registration system to assign unique IDs for both academic and commercial EST and GSS libraries will be studied.

Controlled vocabulary in KEYWORDS line  
:  The three banks agree to use following three keywords in common.
  -   Two terms to describe the direction and location of EST  
      "5'-end sequence (5'-EST)"  
      "3'-end sequence (3'-EST)"
  -   A term to indicate an entry belonging to a full length insert cDNA
      project  
      "FLI\_CDNA"

#### Changes to the Feature Table Document: Features and Qualifiers  {#2007-ft}

The following items will be applied from October 2007 with the revision
of [Feature Table Definition](/ddbj/feature-table-e.html), if not otherwise
specified.

-   New [ncRNA](/ddbj/features-e.html#ncRNA) feature

    A variety of new types of RNA transcripts, "miRNA", "siRNA", and so
    on, have been introduced in recent years. Because the number of non
    protein coding RNA families is quite likely to continue to expand, a
    new ncRNA feature that can flexibly accommodate them will be
    introduced.  
    Furthermore, snRNA, snoRNA, and scRNA features are merged into ncRNA
    feature by December 2007.

-   New /[ncRNA\_class](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#ncRNA_class) qualifier

    The new feature, ncRNA, will utilize a new qualifier called
    /ncRNA\_class, with a controlled vocabulary to indicate what type of
    non-protein-coding feature is being represented

    Format: /ncRNA\_class="&lt;ncRNA\_class\_TYPE&gt;"  
    Example: /ncRNA\_class="miRNA"  
    &lt;ncRNA\_class\_TYPE&gt; should be selected from the following
    list;

        antisense_RNA", "autocatalytically_spliced_intron", "telomerase_RNA", 
        "hammerhead_ribozyme", "RNase_P_RNA", "RNase_MRP_RNA", "guide_RNA", 
        "rasiRNA", "scRNA", "siRNA", "miRNA", "snoRNA", "snRNA", "SRP_RNA", 
        "vault_RNA", "Y_RNA", "other" 

-   New [tmRNA](/ddbj/features-e.html#tmRNA) feature

    To support a class of RNA transcripts that have dual tRNA-like and
    mRNA-like behaviors, a new tmRNA feature will belegal. See
    [tmRDB](http://www.ag.auburn.edu/mirror/tmRDB/) that provide some
    background information about the tmRNAs.

-   New /[tag\_peptide](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#tag_peptide) qualifier

    To indicate the nucleotide region encoding the proteolysis tag
    peptide of tmRNA, a new qualifier, /tag\_peptide, will be used for
    the tmRNA feature.

    Format: /tag\_peptide=&lt;base\_range&gt;  
    Example: /tag\_peptide=90..122

-   "tmRNA" is added to the specified values for the
    /[mol\_type](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#mol_type) qualifier that
    indicates molecule type of the sequence in vivo on the
    [source](/ddbj/features-e.html#source) feature.

-   The value of
    /[specimen\_voucher](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#specimen_voucher)
    qualifier will be become structured, consisting of an institution
    code, a collection code, and a specimen identifier, as well as the
    existing unstructured values.

        Format:
          /specimen_voucher="[<institution_code>:[<collection_code>:]]<specimen_id>"
          There are three forms of specimen_voucher qualifiers; 
          <specimen_id>
          <institution_code>:<specimen_id>
          <institution_code>:<collection_code>:<specimen_id>

    If the value of includes one or more colons, ":", it is
    'structured'. Structured vouchers include institution\_codes (and
    optional collection\_codes) taken from a controlled vocabulary that
    denote the museum or herbarium collection where the specimen resides

        Example:
             /specimen_voucher="UAM:Mamm:52179"
             /specimen_voucher="AMCC:101706"
             /specimen_voucher="USNM:field series 8798"
             /specimen_voucher="personal collection:Dan Janzen:99-SRNP-2003"
             /specimen_voucher="99-SRNP-2003"

-   The two new qualifiers,
    /[culture\_collection](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#culture_collection)
    and /[bio\_material](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#bio_material), will be
    legal for the [source](/ddbj/features-e.html#source) feature.

    These qualifiers will utilize the same format as
    /[specimen\_voucher](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#specimen_voucher).  
    culture\_collection; Institution code and identifier for the culture
    from which the nucleic acid sequenced was obtained.

        Format: 
            /culture_collection="<institution_code>:[<collection_code>:]<culture_id>"
        Example: 
            /culture_collection="ATCC:26370"

    bio\_material; Identifier for the biological material from which the
    nucleic acid sequenced was obtained

        Format:  
            /bio_material="[<institution_code>:[<collection_code&'gt;:]]<material_id>"

        Example: 
            /bio_material="CGC:CB3912" 
                CGC; Caenorhabditis Genetics Center

-   The feature, old\_sequence will be illegal for new entries.

-   At DDBJ, the two features, repeat\_unit and satellite, will be
    illegal for new entries

    Both repeat\_unit and satellite features will be merged into
    [repeat\_reigon](/ddbj/features-e.html#repeat_region) feature.

-   The two features, 5'clip and 3'clip will be no longer used.

-   The /[organism](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#organism) qualifier will be
    no longer used for misc\_recomb.

-   The /[operon](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#operon) qualifier will be
    legal on the [protein\_bind](/ddbj/features-e.html#protein_bind)
    feature.

-   The term, "alignment", will be legal for \[TYPE\] of the
    /[inference](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#inference) qualifier
