---
layout: tabbed_indexed_content
title: '21st ICM: May 20-22 2008, Mishima, Japan'
start_date: 2008-05-20
end_date: 2008-05-22
place: Mishima, Japan
lang: ja
category: icm
related_pages:
  - title: DDBJ Publications Archive
    url: /activities/archives-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff papers (2009-)
    url: /activities/index-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff presentations (2009-)
    url: /activities/index-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff presentations (2001-2008)
    url: /activities/past-presentations-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff papers（1996-2008）
    url: /activities/past-papers-e.html
  - title: DDBJ Annual Reports
    url: /activities/index-e.html
  - title: Patent column from DDBJ
    url: /activities/patent-e.html
  - title: DDBJ Mail Magazine
    url: /subscribe-ddbj-e.html
---

## 2008 <a name="2008"></a>

### 21st ICM: May 20-22 2008, Mishima, Japan

International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration (INSDC), the
three data banks; DDBJ, EMBL-Bank/EBI, GenBank/NCBI hold the
international collaborators meeting every year.  
In 2008, [the meeting was held at DDBJ in Japan, 20-22
May](/news/en/2008-05-09-e.html).

DDBJ, EMBL-Bank, GenBank reported each bank activities in the last year,
discussed some practical matters to maintain and develop INSDC.

#### The Items; Discussed and To Be Studied


{:#tsa}A new division, TSA (Transcriptome Shotgun Assembly)  
:  From June 2008, INSDC introduce a new division for assembled mRNA sequences, TSA. Note that it is required that the TSA submission with the original sequence data of primary transcripts is classified into the [EST division](/ddbj/flat-file-e.html#Division) of INSDC, [Trace Archive](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Traces/trace.cgi), or [Short Read Archive](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Traces/sra/sra.cgi). More information about how to submit the TSA entry will be provided via DDBJ website.

Sequence data from next generation sequencing  
:  In principle, raw reads from next generation sequencing should be registered to [Short Read Archive](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Traces/sra/sra.cgi). Following the workshop on MINSEQE (Minimal Information about a High Throughput Sequencing Experiment), data from next generation sequencing not initially intended for INSD submissions might result in discoveries of variation or re-annotation that could be submitted to INSDC as TPA or TSA entries. The number of TPA entries is not expected to grow rapidly.

Representative submissions of identical sequences for variation studies  
:  INSDC basically accept all sequence data, regardless of source and sequence identity. However, in order to take advantage of normalisation for variation studies, a single submission to represent multiple identical sequences is also acceptable [with frequency and total sample number](#freq) described by /frequency qualifier of source feature.

Removal of the frag for electronic publication, "(er)", in REFERENCE/JOURNAL lines  
:  The electronic publication token in REFERENCE/JOURNAL lines, "(er)", will be removed. Old records will be retrofitted to conventional article citations where possible.

#### Changes to the Feature Table Document: Features and Qualifiers <a name="2008-ft"></a>

The following items will be applied from October 2008 with the revision
of [Feature Table Definition](/ddbj/feature-table-e.html), if not otherwise
specified.

-   Modification of controlled vocabulary for
    /[mol\_type](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#mol_type) qualifier

    The /mol\_type qualifier is used to indicate in vivo, synthetic or
    hypothetical molecule type in [source](/ddbj/features-e.html#source)
    feature. The vocabrary list for /mol\_type qualifier will be
    modified as follows;

    -   Addition: "transcribed RNA"
    -   Removal: "snoRNA", "snRNA", "scRNA", "pre-RNA" and "tmRNA"

-   The value, "chromatophore", will be legal for
    /[organelle](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#organelle) qualifier

-   Modification of controlled vocabulary for
    /[ncRNA\_class](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#ncRNA_class) qualifier

    The [ncRNA](/ddbj/features-e.html#ncRNA) feature utilizes a
    /ncRNA\_class qualifier with a controlled vocabulary to indicate
    what type of non-protein-coding feature is being represented. The
    list for controlled vocabulary of /ncRNA\_class qualifier will be
    modified as follows;

    -   Addition: "6S/SsrS", "SraD RNA", "DsrA RNA", "SroC", "ribozyme"

    See also [Controlled vocabulary for ncRNA
    classes](http://www.insdc.org/rna_vocab.html).

-   A new qualifier, /[satellite](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#satellite),
    will be legal for
    [repeat\_region](/ddbj/features-e.html#repeat_region) feature.

    Format "&lt;satellite\_type&gt;\[:&lt;class&gt;\]\[
    &lt;identifier&gt;\]"  
    where satellite\_type is one of the following;  
    "satellite", "microsatellite", "minisatellite"  

        Example
             /satellite="satellite: S1a"
             /satellite="satellite: gamma III"
             /satellite="minisatellite"
             /satellite="microsatellite: DC130"

    <li id="freq">
      <p class="no_bottom">Improvement of the format of the /<a href="/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#frequency">frequency</a> qualifier</p>
      <p>
          In order to represent a sample size, following descriptions will also be legal for the value formats of the /frequency qualifier in addition to decimal fractions;<br>
"[m] in [n]" or "[m] / [n]".
      </p>

      <pre class="flat-file code">Example
         /frequency="23/108"
         /frequency="1 in 12"</pre>
    </li>

-   /specific\_host qualifier will become
    /[host](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#host) qualifier.

    Both /host and /[lab\_host](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#lab_host) should
    be described with a binominal scientific name, if possible.

        Example
             /lab_host="Gallus gallus"
             /lab_host="Gallus gallus embryo"
             /lab_host="Escherichia coli strain DH5 alpha"
             /lab_host="Homo sapiens HeLa cells"

-   Removal of /virion qualifier

    Note: The /[proviral](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#proviral) qualifier
    will remain in use.

-   Removal of /cons\_splice qualifier

-   Improvement of validation for both
    /[rearranged](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#rearranged) and
    /[germline](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#germline) qualifiers

    Basically, both /rearranged and /germline qualifiers should be used
    to indicate if the sequence has undergone somatic rearrangement as
    part of an adaptive immune response or not. However, since many of
    them have been wrongly used, we will correct them.

-   A new qualifier,
    /[gene\_synonym](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#gene_synonym), will be
    legal for features that can use
    /[gene](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#gene) qualifier.

    We also expect further minor changes in the usage of /gene
    qualifier. Details of changes will be made available shortly

-   Improvement of the format of
    /[inference](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#inference) qualifier

    In order to describe inferential supports more effectively, format
    /inference qualifier will be improved. Details of changes will be
    made available shortly

-   A new qualifier,
    /[mating\_type](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#mating_type), will be legal
    for source feature.

    The /[sex](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#sex) qualifier will also remain
    in use. Guidelines of descriptions for both /mating\_type and /sex
    will be made available shortly.
