---
layout: tabbed_indexed_content
title: '23rd ICM: May 19-21 2010, Hinxton, UK'
start_date: 2010-05-19
end_date: 2010-05-21
place: Hinxton, UK
lang: en
category: icm
related_pages:
  - title: DDBJ Publications Archive
    url: /activities/archives-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff papers (2009-)
    url: /activities/index-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff presentations (2009-)
    url: /activities/index-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff presentations (2001-2008)
    url: /activities/past-presentations-e.html
  - title: DDBJ staff papers（1996-2008）
    url: /activities/past-papers-e.html
  - title: DDBJ Annual Reports
    url: /activities/index-e.html
  - title: Patent column from DDBJ
    url: /activities/patent-e.html
  - title: DDBJ Mail Magazine
    url: /subscribe-ddbj-e.html
---

## 2010 <a name="2010"></a>

### 23rd ICM: May 19-21 2010, Hinxton, UK

International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration (INSDC),
consisted of DDBJ, EBI and NCBI, hold the international collaborators
meeting every year.  
In 2010, the meeting was held at EBI in UK, 19-21 May, to discuss
practical matters to maintain and update nucleotide sequence data
archives; DDBJ, EMBL-Bank, GenBank, Sequence Read Archive and Trace
Archive. As a result of travel disruptions relating to the Icelandic
volcano, the meeting was shorter than expected. Despite these
difficulties, we believe that we made significant progress at the
meeting. The outcomes of the meeting are summarized below.

#### The Items; Discussed and To Be Studied

Current movements related to sequence data submission and standardized description formats for sampling information  
Sampling information for genome scale data  
:  According to the request from [Genomic Standards Consortium (GSC)](http://gensc.org/), INSDC has discussed to include sampling information of genome scale data in complying with [Minimum Information about a (Meta)Genome Sequence (MIGS/MIMS)](http://wiki.gensc.org/index.php?title=MIGS/MIMS) and Minimum Information about an Environmental Sequence (MIENS) in sequence data records, [since 2005](/activities/icm/2005-e)  
  [Since 2009](/activities/icm/2009-e), DDBJ, EMBL-Bank and GenBank have been using structured COMMENT/CC lines to describe this kind of extended metadata. However, making reference database for extensible metadata has some advantages; to maintain and to update independently; to reduce redundancy of contents. So, INSDC should consider to provide extensible metadata by some reference database   
  See also [Genomic Standards Consortium on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genomic_Standards_Consortium)

Minimal submission requirements for INSDC  
:  INSDC will register its minimal submission requirements into [Minimum Information for Biological and Biomedical Investigations (MIBBI)](http://mibbi.sourceforge.net/legacy.shtml). MIBBI is a project to synthesize reporting guidelines from various communities into a suite of orthogonal standards.

<a name="jcvi"></a>
Prokaryotic Annotation Workshop  
:  Researchers participated [Prokaryotic Annotation Workshop](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genomes/AnnotationWorkshop.html), hosted by [NCBI](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/), requested to INSDC some modifications for the description rules of features and qualifiers. The requests were mainly from [J. Craig Venter Institute (JCVI)](https://www.jcvi.org/).INSDC mainly discussed how to cite references for annotated features and a guideline for protein nomenclature for values of [/product qualifiers](/ddbj/cds-e.html#product) in [CDS features](/ddbj/cds-e.html).

BioProject database  
:  [Since 2005](/activities/icm/2005-e), INSDC has discussed project ID assignment as a flag to specify many kinds of large scale sequencing projects with considerable modifications.   
  In 2010, the schema for project ID will be largely modified to extend its targets to many kinds of biological data other than nucleotide sequence, such as array, mass spectrometry, and so on. The database was renamed to BioProject database. BioProject database will be provided from NCBI near future.

Strain level taxonomy ID assignment for microorganism genome submission  
:  All [organism names](/ddbj/organism-e.html) that are represented in the sequence data of INSDC are registered to the taxonomy database.  
  [Since 2009](/activities/icm/2009-e), taxonomy database has considered to terminate assignment of strain level taxonomy ID for microorganism genomes. However, since many institutes have already cited those strain level IDs, we will continue to add strain level taxids for prokaryotes at least for one more year.

European Nucleotide Archive (ENA) launched at EBI  
:  From May 2010 at UK, [the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA)](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/) has been launched, consolidating three major sequence resources in Europe, EMBL Nucleotide Sequence Database (EMBL-Bank), Trace Archive and Sequence Read Archive, to become Europe's primary access point to globally comprehensive nucleotide sequence information.

#### Names for activities of INSDC

[Since 2009](/activities/icm/2009-e), new collaborators
have joined to INSDC. So, some INSDC documents about policies and
activities should be updated

-   INSDC is the official name for the entirety of the collaboration,
    including traditional sequence databases (DDBJ, EMBL-Bank and
    GenBank), the next-gen sequence databases and Trace Archive.
-   We agreed to call the international activities to archive raw
    sequencing data from next-generation sequencers "Sequence Read
    Archive". After the agreement, DRA has been renamed from "DDBJ Read
    Archive" to "[DDBJ Sequence Read Archive](/dra/index-e.html)".
-   The operations of INSDC to archive sequence chromatograms (traces)
    is named "Trace Archive".

#### Sequence Read Archive (SRA)

A paper for SRA introduction  
:  We will prepare a joint SRA paper with details about the data model.

Dealing with data from new sequencing platforms  
:  SRA schema will be updated to support new sequencing platforms;

-   Complete Genomics
-   Helicos
-   Pacific BioSciences
-   Ion Torrent

#### Changes in future revisions of the Feature Table Document: Features and Qualifiers

The following items will be applied from October 2010 with the revision
of [Feature Table Definition](/ddbj/feature-table-e.html), if not otherwise
specified.

-   The conflict feature will be no longer used.  
    <span class="red">For data submitted to DDBJ, the conflict feature
    can be no longer used. </span>

-   Three qualifiers, /codon, /label and /partial will be no longer
    used.  
    <span class="red">For data submitted to DDBJ, the conflict feature
    can be no longer used.</span>

-   The /[gene\_synonym](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#gene_synonym) qualifier
    will be legal when either /[gene](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#gene) or
    /[locus\_tag](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#locus_tag) is used in a
    feature.

-   The description rule for transposable element will be changed.  
    [Since 2006](/activities/icm/2006-e), transposable
    element has been described with
    [repeat\_region](/ddbj/features-e.html#repeat_region) feature and
    /mobile\_element qualifier.
    [mobile\_element](/ddbj/features-e.html#mobile_element) feature and
    /[mobile\_element\_type](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#mobile_element_type)
    qualifier will be added and used to describe transposable element.  
    <span class="red">This modification will be applied in
    December 2010. </span>

-   A new qualifier, /whole\_replicon, will be legal for
    [source](/ddbj/features-e.html#source) feature.  
    To flag entries oriented to sequence whole replicon, we will use
    /whole\_replicon qualifier.  
    <span class="red">Time course for this addition has not yet been
    specified.</span>

-   Improvement of format for
    /[artificial\_location](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#artificial_location)
    qualifier.  
    [Since 2009](/activities/icm/2009-e),
    /[artificial\_location](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#artificial_location)
    qualifier has been introduced as a valueless qualifier. To classify
    the reasons of its usages, the qualifier will have either of two
    controlled values; "heterogenous population sequenced" or
    "low-quality sequence region".

-   Improvement of formats for
    /[experiment](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#experiment) and
    /[inference](/ddbj/qualifiers-e.html#inference) qualifiers.  
    On the basis of [requests from Prokaryotic Annotation
    Workshop](#jcvi), formats for /experiment and /inference qualifiers
    will be improved mainly to cite its support evidence in a feature.

    -   header "COORDINATES", "DESCRIPTION", "EXISTS" による分類
    -   description of PubMed ID (PMID) and Digital Object Identifier
        (DOI) to indicate cited publications

    Examples

                    /experiment="COORDINATES: N-terminus verified by Edman degradation
                [PMID: 8096212]"
                /inference="DESCRIPTION: similar to AA sequence: INSDC: AAF23014.2"

-   How to improve pseudogene annotation?  
    As mentioned above, [Prokaryotic Annotation Workshop](#jcvi)
    requested to improve description rules of features and qualifiers.
    One of their requests is improvement of pseudogene annotation. Also,
    to solve [a problem of /pseudo qualifier usage in
    ICM2009](/activities/icm/2009-e), we discussed this
    issue. However, we could not reach any agreement in the meeting,
    mainly because of difficulties to keep integrity with existing
    records.  
    <span class="red">This issue will be reconsidered.</span>
