---
layout: indexed_content
title: Reviewer Access
pathname: reviewer-access-e
category: aboutgea
---

<div id="page" class="top">

<div id="header" class="clearfix">

<div id="header-top">

[![](/images/parts/ddbj-logo-white.svg)](/index-e.html "DNA Data Bank of Japan")

<div id="header-top-left">

<span class="resources-btn">Services**</span>

</div>

<div id="header-top-right">

  - [Login & Submit](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/D-way)
  - [Policies and Disclaimers](/policies-e.html)
  - [Contact](/contact-e.html)
  - [Japanese](/gea/reviewer-access.html)

</div>

</div>

<div class="resources-contents">

<div class="boxContainer">

<div class="resources-box">

  - ### ![](/images/logos/service-org.svg)Search

  - [getentry](http://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html "Retrieve sequence records by accession numbers")

  - [ARSA](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/arsa/ "Retrieve sequence and annotation by keywords")

  - [DRA
    Search](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/DRASearch "Search and retrieve sequencing data.")

  - [TXSearch](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/tx_search/?lang=en "Search unified taxonomy database")

  - [BLAST](http://blast.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/blastn?lang=en "Search nucleotide sequences by sequence similarity")

<!-- end list -->

  - ### ![](/images/logos/wrench.svg)Analysis

  - [Vector Screening
    System](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/vecscreen/ "Screen vector sequences")

  - [ClustalW](http://clustalw.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/index.php?lang=en "Multiple alignment and tree-making")

  - [WABI (Web API for
    Biology)](/search/help/wabi/wabi-e.html "Web API for using the search services of DDB")

  - [DDBJ FTP
    Site](ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ "Download public data by ftp")

</div>

<div class="resources-box">

  - ### ![](/images/logos/database-org.svg)Databases

  - [Annotated/Assembled Sequences
    (DDBJ)](/ddbj/index-e.html "Annotated/Assembled Sequences (DDBJ)")

  - [Sequence Read Archive
    (DRA)](/dra/index-e.html "Sequence Read Archive")

  - [Genomic Expression Archive
    (GEA)](/gea/index-e.html "Genomic Expression Archive")

  - [BioProject](/bioproject/index-e.html "BioProject")

  - [BioSample](/biosample/index-e.html "BioSample")

  - [Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive
    (JGA)](/jga/index-e.html "Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive")

  - [Submission portal
    D-way](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/D-way "Submission portal D-way")

<!-- end list -->

  - ### ![](/images/logos/sc-org.svg)NIG SuperComputer

  - [NIG
    SuperComputer](https://sc.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/en "NIG SuperComputer")

</div>

<div class="resources-box dbcls">

  - ### ![](/images/logos/dbcls-s.svg)DBCLS Services

  - [AOE](http://aoe.dbcls.jp/en "Statistics and trends of gene expression data")

  - [CRISPRdirect](https://crispr.dbcls.jp/ "Designing CRISPR/Cas9 guide RNA with reduced off-target sites")

  - [DBCLS
    SRA](http://sra.dbcls.jp/ "Statistics and trends of SRA data")

  - [Gendoo](http://gendoo.dbcls.jp/ "Functional profiling of gene and disease features for omics analysis")

  - [GGGenome](https://gggenome.dbcls.jp/en/ "A ultrafast sequence search")

  - [GGRNA](https://ggrna.dbcls.jp/en/ "A Google-like, ultrafast search engine for genes and transcripts")

  - [RefEx](http://refex.dbcls.jp/index.php?lang=en "A web tool for a comfortable search of reference data for gene expression analysis")

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="header-middle" class="clearfix">

<div class="page-title">

[Genomic Expression Archive](/gea/index-e.html)

</div>

<div class="search-box">

<div id="search-box-flex">

<div class="search-options-wrapper">

BI-DDBJ Web Sites Annotated/Assembled Sequences Sequence Read Archive

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="header-bottom">

  - [Home](/gea/index-e.html)
  - [Submission
    Overview![](/images/parts/arrow_down.svg)](/gea/overview-e.html)
      - [Submit microarray experiment](/gea/submit-array-e.html)
      - [Submit sequencing experiment](/gea/submit-seq-e.html)
      - [Metadata](/gea/metadata-e.html)
      - [Data File](/gea/datafile-e.html)
      - [Validation](/gea/validation-e.html)
      - [Example](/gea/example-e.html)
      - [Array Design](/gea/adf-e.html)
      - [Data matrix](/gea/matrix-e.html)
      - [Reviewer Access](/gea/reviewer-access-e.html)
  - [FAQ](/gea/faq-e.html)
  - [Search
    (AOE)![](/images/parts/arrow_down.svg)](http://aoe.dbcls.jp/en)
      - [RefEx](http://refex.dbcls.jp/index.php?lang=en)
      - [Search
        (ArrayExpress)](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/browse.html)
  - [Downloads](ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ddbj_database/gea)
  - [About GEA](/gea/about-e.html)

</div>

</div>

<div id="main" class="clearfix">

<div id="breadcrumb" class="clearfix">

  - [HOME](/gea/index-e.html "Genomic Expression Archive top page")
  - \>
  - Reviewer Access

</div>

<div id="primary">

<div id="page_main">

<div id="book">

# Reviewer Access

<div class="section book">

<div class="section chapter">

## Reviewer access token

After your records have been accessioned, use the 'Generate new reviewer
access key' button to create a reviewer token which provides anonymous,
read-only access to your private submissions. The token can be sent to
the journal editor who will circulate it to reviewers requiring access
to your private data. The token will be expired after three months. You
can re-generate a new token if necesssary. The reviewer access URL is
provided in accession number notification e-mail sent to submitters.
This method provides access to all private data except sequence files
submitted to [DRA](/dra/index-e.html). [DRA](/dra/index-e.html) does not
support access to private sequence data.

![Generate new reviewer access key](/images/submission/reviewer1.jpg
"Generate new reviewer access key")

![A reviewer token](/images/submission/reviewer3.jpg "A reviewer token")

</div>

<div class="section chapter">

## Submitter anonymity

To reduce potential bias during peer review, some journals now offer
manuscript depositors the option of "double-blind" peer review, where a
depositor remains anonymous to the reviewer. GEA supports "double-blind"
peer review of private data sets by redacting certain metadata fields
which would inevitably reveal the submitter's identity, namely, [IDF
fields](/gea/metadata-e.html#idf_tags) start with "Person" (name and
email address), "PubMed" and "Publication" (pubmed ID and DOI). The
redaction is done when a submitter chooses double-blind option and only
applies when a reviewer is accessing the GEA experiment of interest, so
the GEA submitter (using his/her dedicated D-way login) will continue to
see the full metadata record. Anonymity can also be lifted by
re-generating a token without selecting double-blind option, e.g. when
the manuscript is submitted to a journal which does not support
"double-blind" peer review. Finally, submitter anonymity will be lifted
completely once the experiment goes public.

GEA automatically redact the IDF fields start with "Person", "PubMed"
and "Publication". It is solely submitter's responsibility to remove any
submitter-identifibale information in other places such as an owner of
Excel file in processed data.

![IDF fields redacted in double-blind
option](/images/submission/reviewer7.jpg
"IDF fields redacted in double-blind option")

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="side_navigation">

<div class="side_nav_menu handbook_contents handbook reviewer-access">

<div id="in_this_page">

## In this page

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="footer_original" class="clearfix">

  - [Policies and
    Disclaimers](/policies-e.html "Policies and Disclaimers")
  - [News](/news/en/index-e.html "News archives")
  - [FAQs](/faq/en/index-e.html "Frequently asked questions")
  - [Sitemap](/sitemap-e.html "Sitemap")
  - [Calendar](/calendar-e.html "DDBJ Center Calendar")
  - [Address](/access-e.html "DDBJ Center address")
  - [Contact](/contact-e.html "Contact to DDBJ Center")
  - Last modified: 2018-07-23

</div>

</div>
