---
layout: indexed_content
lang: en
title: Submission and release data volumes
category: statistics
lang: en
related_pages:
  - title: DDBJ Periodical Release Statistics
    url: /statistics/ddbj-release-e.html
  - title: DDBJ Periodical Releases
    url: /ddbj-releases-e.html
addhead: <script type='text/javascript' src='https://www.gstatic.com/charts/loader.js'></script><script type='text/javascript' src='/assets/js/jquery.charts.js'></script>
---

## DDBJ data submission {#ddbj-submission}

- Web Submission: [Submission to Nucleotide Sequence Submission System](/ddbj/web-submission-e.html)
- MSS Submission: [Submission to Mass Submission System](/ddbj/mss-e.html)
- Submission: Number of submission to DDBJ

<div id="ddbj-submission_stat_area"></div>

## DDBJ data release {#ddbj-release}

<div id="ddbj-release-growth-chart"></div>

<div id="ddbj-release-growth-table" class="top_space20"></div>
<br>

CON and TPA divisions are not included in the release statistics due to the following reasons. CON: CON division records are constructed from other sequence records and their inclusion would be a form of double-counting. TPA: TPA division records are not original data obtained by submitters.  

[Source data
table](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16ZF79i1X17Zfn3x6vnJ2elmWXb3ToHt9nZIDTtg-zGA/edit#gid=161698998)

## DDBJ Periodical Release Statistics {#ddbj-release}

[DDBJ Periodical Release Statistics](/statistics/ddbj-release-e.html)

## DRA data submission {#dra-submission}

<div id="dra-submission_stat_area"></div>

## DRA data release {#dra-release}

<div id="dra-release_stat_area"></div>
## GEA data release {#gea-release}

<div id="gea-release_stat_area"></div>

## GEA data submission {#gea-submission}

<div id="gea-submission_stat_area"></div>

## GEA data release {#gea-release}

<div id="gea-release_stat_area"></div>

## MetaboBank data submission {#metabobank-submission}

<div id="metabobank-submission_stat_area"></div>

## MetaboBank data release {#metabobank-release}

<div id="metabobank-release_stat_area"></div>

## JGA data submission {#jga-submission}

<div id="jga-submission_stat_area"></div>

## JGA data release {#jga-release}

<div id="jga-release_stat_area"></div>

## Web access {#web-access}

<div id="web-access_stat_area"></div>
<br>
Comment:   
'Unique users/month' is 'unique IP addresses/month' (bot
accesses are excluded) generated by awstats. Due to the loss of web
server log of DDBJ home pages (www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp) from 2018-02-22 to
2018-04-13, the numbers of 2018 February, March and April are excluded
from 2018 average of 'Home pages' and 'All'. Until October 2021, all is unique users/month
by combining and analyzing ARSA, BLAST, ClustalW, getentry, TXSearch,
DRASearch and www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp home pages (included in chart and
table), MiGAP, DDBJ Pipeline, D-way, BPSearch, BSSearch, SuperComputer
(sc.ddbj.nig.ac.jp) and home page (omitted in chart and table) logs. In November 2021, BLAST, ClustalW and BP/BS/DRASearch were closed and DDBJ Search was released. Since November 2021, accesses to BLAST, ClustalW and BP/BS/DRASearch have been excluded and those to the DDBJ Search have been added. 'Home page' has been analyzed by the awstats 7.0 (since January 2004 to
January 2018) and awstats 7.2 (since February 2018), and all the other
sites have been analyzed by 7.2. Since October 2018, unique IP addresses
of the DDBJ website (www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp) and those of search, analysis
and submission web services have been merged.   
Due to the loss of web server log of DDBJ home pages (www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp) from 2024-12-02 to 2024-12-23, the numbers of 2024 December are excluded from 2024 average of 'Home pages' and 'All'. 

## Home page access {#page-access}

<div id="page-access_stat_area"></div>

Comment: 'Unique users/month' is 'unique IP addresses/month' (excluding bot accesses) of web accesses to www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp pages analyzed by awstats. The [awstats 7.0](https://awstats.sourceforge.io/docs/awstats_changelog.txt) (since January 2004 to January 2018) and [awstats 7.2](https://awstats.sourceforge.io/docs/awstats_changelog.txt) (since February 2018) have been used. In February 2018, BioProject/BioSample/DRA/GEA/JGA pages which had been hosted at trace.ddbj.nig.ac.jp addresses were integrated to www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp. Due to the loss of web access log from 2018-02-22 to 2018-04-13, the numbers of 2018 February, March and April are less than the actual and are excluded from 2018 year average.
