---
layout: indexed_content
pathname: index-e
category: aboutjga
---

<div id="page" class="top">

<div id="header" class="clearfix">

<div id="header-top">

[![](/images/parts/ddbj-logo-white.svg)](/index-e.html "DNA Data Bank of Japan")

<div id="header-top-left">

<span class="resources-btn">Services**</span>

</div>

<div id="header-top-right">

  - [Login & Submit](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/D-way)
  - [Policies and Disclaimers](/policies-e.html)
  - [Contact](/contact-e.html)
  - [Japanese](/jga/index.html)

</div>

</div>

<div class="resources-contents">

<div class="boxContainer">

<div class="resources-box">

  - ### ![](/images/logos/service-org.svg)Search

  - [getentry](http://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html "Retrieve sequence records by accession numbers")

  - [ARSA](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/arsa/ "Retrieve sequence and annotation by keywords")

  - [DRA
    Search](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/DRASearch "Search and retrieve sequencing data.")

  - [TXSearch](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/tx_search/?lang=en "Search unified taxonomy database")

  - [BLAST](http://blast.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/blastn?lang=en "Search nucleotide sequences by sequence similarity")

<!-- end list -->

  - ### ![](/images/logos/wrench.svg)Analysis

  - [Vector Screening
    System](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/vecscreen/ "Screen vector sequences")

  - [ClustalW](http://clustalw.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/index.php?lang=en "Multiple alignment and tree-making")

  - [WABI (Web API for
    Biology)](/search/help/wabi/wabi-e.html "Web API for using the search services of DDB")

  - [DDBJ FTP
    Site](ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ "Download public data by ftp")

</div>

<div class="resources-box">

  - ### ![](/images/logos/database-org.svg)Databases

  - [Annotated/Assembled Sequences
    (DDBJ)](/ddbj/index-e.html "Annotated/Assembled Sequences (DDBJ)")

  - [Sequence Read Archive
    (DRA)](/dra/index-e.html "Sequence Read Archive")

  - [Genomic Expression Archive
    (GEA)](/gea/index-e.html "Genomic Expression Archive")

  - [BioProject](/bioproject/index-e.html "BioProject")

  - [BioSample](/biosample/index-e.html "BioSample")

  - [Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive
    (JGA)](/jga/index-e.html "Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive")

  - [Submission portal
    D-way](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/D-way "Submission portal D-way")

<!-- end list -->

  - ### ![](/images/logos/sc-org.svg)NIG SuperComputer

  - [NIG
    SuperComputer](https://sc.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/en "NIG SuperComputer")

</div>

<div class="resources-box dbcls">

  - ### ![](/images/logos/dbcls-s.svg)DBCLS Services

  - [AOE](http://aoe.dbcls.jp/en "Statistics and trends of gene expression data")

  - [CRISPRdirect](https://crispr.dbcls.jp/ "Designing CRISPR/Cas9 guide RNA with reduced off-target sites")

  - [DBCLS
    SRA](http://sra.dbcls.jp/ "Statistics and trends of SRA data")

  - [Gendoo](http://gendoo.dbcls.jp/ "Functional profiling of gene and disease features for omics analysis")

  - [GGGenome](https://gggenome.dbcls.jp/en/ "A ultrafast sequence search")

  - [GGRNA](https://ggrna.dbcls.jp/en/ "A Google-like, ultrafast search engine for genes and transcripts")

  - [RefEx](http://refex.dbcls.jp/index.php?lang=en "A web tool for a comfortable search of reference data for gene expression analysis")

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="header-middle" class="clearfix">

<div class="page-title">

[Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive](/jga/index-e.html)

</div>

<div class="search-box">

<div id="search-box-flex">

<div class="search-options-wrapper">

BI-DDBJ Web Sites Annotated/Assembled Sequences Sequence Read Archive

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="header-bottom">

  - [Home](/jga/index-e.html)
  - [Studies](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/jga/viewer/view/studies)
  - [Submission![](/images/parts/arrow_down.svg)](/jga/submission-e.html)
      - [How to submit](/jga/substep-e.html)
      - [Example
        submission](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HHlxItj89fQv2oWUNBIHZ4VVGwbcC09WGD5tEiXAQZ4/edit#gid=744299318)
      - [How to download](/jga/download-e.html)
      - [XML
        Schema](https://github.com/ddbj/pub/tree/master/docs/jga/xsd/)
  - [FAQ](/jga/faq-e.html)

</div>

</div>

<div id="main" class="clearfix">

<div id="primary">

<div id="page_main">

<div id="content_part">

## Introduction

The Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive (JGA) is a service for permanent
archiving and sharing of all types of individual-level genetic and
de-identified phenotypic data resulting from biomedical research
projects. The JGA contains exclusive data collected from individuals
whose consent agreements authorize data release only for specific
research use or to bona fide researchers. Strict protocols govern how
information is managed, stored and distributed by the JGA. Once
processed, all data are encrypted. Users can contact the JGA team from
[here](/contact-e.html).  
JGA services are provided in collaboration with [National Bioscience
Database Center (NBDC)](http://biosciencedbc.jp/en/) of [Japan Science
and Technology Agency](http://www.jst.go.jp/EN/index.html).

## Data access

The JGA implements access-granting policy whereby the decisions of who
will be granted access to the data resides with the
[JST-NBDC](http://humandbs.biosciencedbc.jp/). The users apply for data
access directly to the [NBDC](http://humandbs.biosciencedbc.jp/) and the
JGA will only facilitate secure access to the data once the information
of a successful application process has been passed from the NBDC to the
JGA.

## Data submission

The JGA accepts only de-identified data approved by JST-NBDC ([Data
submission of human subjects research](/policies-e.html#human)). The
users apply for data submission directly to the
[NBDC](http://humandbs.biosciencedbc.jp/) and the JGA will only accept
and process submissions once the information of a successful application
process has been passed from the NBDC to the JGA. Prior to data
submission, the submitters should [contact the JGA](/contact-e.html). A
separate notification will then be sent to the submitter including the
instructions of how to upload the data into JGA.

After data submission the JGA team will process the data into databases
and archive the original data files. The accepted data types include
manufacturer-specific raw data formats from the array-based and new
sequencing platforms. The processed data such as the genotype and
structural variants or any summary level statistical analyses from the
original study authors are stored in databases. The JGA also accepts and
distributes any phenotype data associated with the samples. For other
human biological data, please contact [the NBDC human data ethical
committee](http://humandbs.biosciencedbc.jp/).

<div id="db_top_navi_box" class="clearfix">

<div class="box-layer">

[](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/jga/viewer/view/studies "Search")

<div class="top-navi-box">

<div class="icon">

![](/images/parts/search_icon.svg "Search")

</div>

## Search

</div>

[](/jga/substep-e.html "How to submit")

<div class="top-navi-box">

<div class="icon">

![](/images/parts/book_icon.svg "How to submit")

</div>

## How to submit

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="news_part">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="bottom_nav">

<div class="bottom_navi_box">

  - ### Search

  - [getentry](http://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html "Retrieve sequence records by accession numbers")

  - [ARSA](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/arsa/ "Retrieve sequence and annotation by keywords")

  - [DRA
    Search](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/DRASearch/ "Search and retrieve sequencing data.")

  - [TXSearch](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/tx_search/?lang=en "Search unified taxonomy database")

  - [BLAST](http://blast.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/blastn?lang=en "Search nucleotide sequences by sequence similarity")

</div>

<div class="bottom_navi_box">

  - ### Analysis

  - [Vector Screening
    System](http://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/vecscreen/ "Screen vector sequences")

  - [ClustalW](http://clustalw.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/index.php?lang=en "Multiple alignment and tree-making")

  - [WABI (Web API for
    Biology)](/search/help/wabi/wabi-j.html "Web API for using the search services of DDB")

  - [DDBJ FTP
    Site](ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ "Download public data by ftp")

</div>

<div class="bottom_navi_box">

  - ### Databases

  - [Annotated/Assembled Sequences
    (DDBJ)](/ddbj/index-e.html "Annotated/Assembled Sequences (DDBJ)")

  - [Sequence Read Archive
    (DRA)](/dra/index-e.html "Sequence Read Archive")

  - [Genomic Expression Archive
    (GEA)](/gea/index-e.html "Genomic Expression Archive")

  - [BioProject](/bioproject/index-e.html "BioProject")

  - [BioSample](/biosample/index-e.html "BioSample")

  - [Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive
    (JGA)](/jga/index-e.html "Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive")

  - [Submission portal
    D-way](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/D-way "Submission portal D-way")

</div>

<div class="bottom_navi_box">

  - ### NIG SuperComputer

  - [NIG
    SuperComputer](https://sc.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/en "NIG SuperComputer")

<!-- end list -->

  - ### DDBJ Information

  - [Training](/training-e.html)

  - [DDBJ
    RSS![](/images/parts/rss_icon.svg)](/announcements-e.html "News feeds from DDBJ")

  - [DDBJ on
    Twitter![](/images/parts/twitter_icon.svg)](https://twitter.com/DDBJ_topics "DDBJ Twitter")

  - [DDBJ on
    facebook![](/images/parts/facebook_icon.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/ddbjcenter/ "DDBJ facebook")

  - [DDBJ on
    Youtube![](/images/parts/youtube_icon.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/user/ddbjvideo "Introduction of DDBJ by Youtube videos")

  - [DDBJ on
    GitHub![](/images/parts/github_icon.svg)](https://github.com/ddbj/ "Source codes and files")

  - [DDBJ on Google
    Drive![](/images/parts/gdrive.svg)](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/1E0cxLbWV8RGYUdNs0oKfXMij0TzJDQVD "Report and presentation documents")

</div>

<div class="bottom_navi_box partners">

  - ### Partners

  - [![NIG logo](/images/logos/nig.svg
    "NIG")](https://www.nig.ac.jp/nig/)

  - [![ROIS logo](/images/logos/rois.svg
    "ROIS")](http://www.rois.ac.jp/en/index.html)

  - [![JBI logo](/images/logos/jbi.svg
    "JBI Portal")](http://jbioinfo.jp/)

  - [![NBDC logo](/images/logos/nbdc.svg
    "NBDC")](https://biosciencedbc.jp/en/)

  - [![DBCLS logo](/images/logos/dbcls.svg
    "DBCLS")](https://dbcls.rois.ac.jp/index-en.html)

  - [![PDBj logo](/images/logos/pdbj.svg "PDBj")](https://pdbj.org/)

</div>

</div>

<div id="footer_original" class="clearfix">

  - [Policies and
    Disclaimers](/policies-e.html "Policies and Disclaimers")
  - [News](/news/en/index-e.html "News archives")
  - [FAQs](/faq/en/index-e.html "Frequently asked questions")
  - [Sitemap](/sitemap-e.html "Sitemap")
  - [Calendar](/calendar-e.html "DDBJ Center Calendar")
  - [Address](/access-e.html "DDBJ Center address")
  - [Contact](/contact-e.html "Contact to DDBJ Center")
  - Last modified: 2018-02-16

</div>

</div>
