---
layout: indexed_content
title: 'Announcement for DDBJ release'
category: news
db:
  - ddbj


date: 2002-05-10T00:00:00
lang: en
---

<html>
<dt>-- A change of the periodical release schedule, a change of the compress　format of "ddbjnew", addition of the new format files to DDBJ database --

    <p></p>
</dt>
<dd><b>A change of the periodical release schedule</b><br>
<dd>The nucleotide sequence database collected and maintained by DDBJ is　quarterly released to public. The present release is scheduled on January,　April, July and October. DDBJ change them to March, June, September and　December to avoid busy time for registration. Next periodical release is　on June, one month earlier than the previously scheduled release time.<br>
<dd><b>A change of the compress format of "ddbjnew"</b><br>
<dd>To use the same compress format with GenBank and EMBL, DDBJ will change　the compress format of the unified daily update file (ddbjnew) from　"compress" to "gzip" which is superior to compress. The format of DDBJ　periodical release has already changed to "gzip". The changeover of　ddbjnew will start on May 29. Before that, DDBJ supply it by both formats　on anonymous-ftp. Please be careful it you need to change the script.<br>
<dd><b>Addition of the new format files to DDBJ database</b><br>
<dd>DDBJ added new format databases on anonymous FTP since DDBJ　release 49 (April 2002). Periodical release and unified daily update　file (ddbjnew) can be retrieved by new format through the following<br>anonymous FTP.<br>
<dd>- FASTA format<br>
<dd>  <a>ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ddbj_database/ddbj/fasta/</a><br>
<dd>- CDS sequence on FASTA format<br>
<dd>  <a href="ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ddbj_database/ddbj/cdsdb/">ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ddbj_database/ddbj/cdsdb/</a><br>
<dd>DDBJ also provide XML formatted files through the anonymous FTP.<br>
<dd>  <a href="ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ddbj_database/ddbj/xml/">ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ddbj_database/ddbj/xml/</a><br>
<dd>  <a href="ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ddbj_database/ddbjnew/xml/">ftp://ftp.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/ddbj_database/ddbjnew/xml/</a></dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</html>
