---
layout: indexed_content
title: 'Change in "BASE COUNT line" of the DDBJ flat file'
category: news
db:
  - ddbj


date: 2003-12-03T00:00:00
lang: en
---

<html>
<dd>The BASE COUNT line of the DDBJ flat file format will be changed from DDBJ release 56 (Dec. 2003), corresponding to the relaxation of the maximum sequence length restriction¡Ê350,000 bp/entry¡Ëin the entry that had been practised at DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank International Nucleotide Sequence Databases.<br>
<dd>In the BASE COUNT line of the DDBJ flat file format, 6 digits had been allocated for each number of a, c, g, t and other bases in the sequence. Hereafter, in the new flat file format, 9 digits are allocated for each number of a, c, g and t, while the numbers of other bases are removed.<br>
<dd>In accordance with the relaxation of sequence length limitation, GenBank had already dropped the BASE COUNT line from their flat file format from GenBank Release 138 (Oct. 2003).<br>
<dd>We DDBJ have decided to maintain the BASE COUNT line in our flat file format from the view that GC contents are still important information to characterize the sequence.<br>
<dd>Prior to publication of release 56 in December, 2003, the new DDBJ flat file format is adopted to daily data update from Dec. 3.

    <p> </p>
<dd>Following is an example of the new BASE COUNT line.
    <pre><code>    <b>= = = = = = = = example = = = = = = = =</b>    1    6   11   16   21   26   31   36   41   46   51   56   61   66   71    &#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;----&#124;    BASE COUNT    123456789 a    123456789 c    123456789 g    123456789 t</code></pre>

    <p></p>
<dd>For detailed explanation of flat files of DDBJ format, please refer to Guidance for Nucleotide Sequence Data Submission to DDBJ (<a href="/ddbj/flat-file-e.html">Guidance 10. Explanation of DDBJ flat file format)</a><br>
<dd>If you have any questions about the change, please send an e-mail to ddbj@ddbj.nig.ac.jp.<br>
<dd>Thank you very much for your understanding and cooperation.</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</html>
