---
layout: simple
title: 'Data were added to GIB'
category: news
db:
  - ddbj


date: 2003-04-21T00:00:00+09:00
retire_time: 2003-04-21T00:00:00+09:00
lang: en
---

<html>
<dd><a href="/services/past-services-e.html#gib">GIB (Genome Information Broker)</a> provides an integrated search of Bacteria, Archaea, Eukaryota complete microbial genome sequences. Because the genome sequence data of<br><i>Coxiella burnetii RSA 493</i>,<i>Streptomyces avermitilis MA-4680</i>,<i>Chlamydophila caviae GPIC</i> and <i>Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579</i> were released, we incorporated them to GIB, and now you can search those data.<br>
<dd>- <small>References(Institutes):</small><br>
<dd>- <small><i>Coxiella burnetii RSA 493</i>(TIGR):<br>Complete Genome Sequence of the Q-fever Pathogen, Coxiella burnetii, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. (2003) In press </small><br>
<dd>- <small><i>Streptomyces avermitilis MA-4680</i>(Kitasato University, NITE):<br> Complete Genome Sequence and Comparative Analysis of the Industrial Microorganism Streptomyces avermitilis, Nat. Biotechnol. (2003) In press </small><br>
<dd>   <small>Genome sequence of an industrial microorganism Streptomyces avermitilis: Deducing the ability of producing secondary metabolites, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 98, 12215-12220 (2001)</small><br>
<dd>- <small><i>Chlamydophila caviae GPIC</i>(TIGR):<br>Genome sequence of Chlamydophila caviae (Chlamydia psittaci GPIC): examining the role of niche-specific genes in the evolution of the Chlamydiaceae, Nucleic Acids Res. 31 (8), 2134-2147 (2003) </small><br>
<dd>- <small><i>Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579</i>(Integrated Genomics Inc.):<br>Genome sequence of Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579 and comparison with Bacillus anthracis, Nature (2003) In press </small><br>
<dd>   <small>The number of ribosomal RNA operons in Bacillus cereus, Unpublished</small></dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</html>
