---
layout: indexed_content
title: 'Rice Genome analysis completed'
category: news
db:
  - ddbj


date: 2005-10-04T00:00:00
lang: en
---

<dd>The Rice genome (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare) has been sequenced by the IRGSP (International Rice Genome Sequencing Project), in December 2004, and Japan has been taking a leading role of this project.
<dd>Recently, a detailed analysis of the high-quality sequence of the rice genome was featured in <a href="http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v436/n7052/full/nature03895.html"> Nature 2005 Aug 11;436(7052):793-800</a>.
<dd>According to National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences (NIAS) and the Institute of the Society for Techno-innovation of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (STAFF), a total of 37,544 genes were identified. About 71% of these genes are similar to genes found in Arabidopsis, a model experimental dicotyledonous plant, which has been completely sequenced in the year 2000. A total of 2,859 genes (c.a. 8%) did not have homologies with those of Arabidopsis. These genes may be rice-specific or monocot-specific.
<dd>The data was submitted to DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank International Nucleotide Sequence Databases and was released under the Accession numbers AP008207 - AP008218. The sequence information is available via DDBJ <a href="http://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html">getentry</a> system.Drs. Takashi Gojobori (Director of CIB-DDBJ) and Hisakazu Iwama (formerly belonged to DDBJ until 2004.10, current affiliation is Associate Professor of Kagawa University) participated in International Rice Genome Sequencing Project, in charge of Annotation and Analysis.
<dd>(References)

    <ul>
        <li><a href="http://rgp.dna.affrc.go.jp/IRGSP/">IRGSP(International Rice Genome Sequencing Project)</a></li>
        <li><a href="/infobio/links/rice-e.html">DDBJ HP:Link to Other web pages on Information Biology (databases for Rice)</a></li>
        <li><a href="http://rgp.dna.affrc.go.jp/IRGSP/Build4/build4.html">IRGSP Release (Build4.0)(2005.8.31)</a></li>
    </ul>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
