---
layout: indexed_content
title: 'Homology search error at X. tropicalis of EST division'
category: news
db:
  - ddbj


date: 2006-02-13T00:00:00
lang: en
---

<html>
<dd>In DDBJ's homology search programs (WWW, E-mail), divisions can be<br> specified as one of the search option, and furthermore, in the EST<br> division, organisms can be selected from 21 organisms which are listed<br> based on the submitted-numbers' statistics (this option is effective only<br> when "DDBJ ALL" or "DDBJ updates" is selected). <i>Silurana tropicalis</i>,<br> one of the 21 EST organisms was merged into <i>Xenopus tropicalis</i> in<br> 2004.
<dd>But, we missed taking this change into database construction processes,<br> and also did not change the description of the search page.<br> Therefore, <i>X. tropicalis</i> have not been able to be selected as<br> the EST organism, and the search being selected S. tropicalis have not<br> been made properly.
<dd>Detaiils are as follows.
<dd>

    <ul>
        <li>Period: 2004.07. - 2006. 01.20</li>
        <li>Affected databases: all homology search programs (WWW, E-mail)<br> except for PSI-BLAST.</li>
        <li>Situation: When <i>S. tropicalis</i> of EST was specified as a<br> division, the search did hit no results (when "select-all" or "others"<br> of EST division was selected, the correct results were obtained.)</li>
        <li>Correction: database construction program bug was fixed.<br> Descriptions of the search pages and their help pages were revised.<br> Now the correct search results are available. Furthermore, the check<br> program to prevent reoccurrence of the trouble will be introduced. </li>
    </ul>
<dd>We apologize for the service error over the long period.</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</html>
