---
layout: simple
title: 'ARSA service suspension for 2 days'
category: news
db:
  - ddbj


date: 2007-10-03T00:00:00
lang: en
---

<html>
<dd><a href="http://arsa.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/arsa/"> ARSA (All-round Retrieval of Sequence and Annotation)</a> is the high-speed keyword search system provided by DDBJ.
<dd>Because of the further system upgrade works and periodical maintenance works, ARSA service will be unavailable at the following schedule. During this period, please use SRS and <a href="http://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html">getentry</a> as the substitute.
<dd><b>Suspension Date &amp; Time:</b> October 25(Thu) 9:00 - 26(Fri) 21:00 (Resume will be notified on this DDBJ HP)
<dd><b>Main improvements:</b>

    <dl>
        <dd><b>-</b> Addition of the "PATHWAY" database to the searchable databases
        <dd><b>-</b> Specification of detailed search conditions is available in the all databases, as well as DDBJ
        <dd><b>-</b> Retrieval of multiple databases using the common search conditions is available
        <dd><b>-</b> Modification of the interface according to the above changes</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dl>
<dd><b>Other improvements:</b>

    <dl>
        <dd><b>-</b> Removal of the limit for the search keywords in the refine search <br>   (In the new ARSA, " <b>'</b> ", " <b>(</b> ", " <b>)</b> ", " <b>{</b> ", " <b>}</b> " can be used)
        <dd><b>-</b> "AND" and/or "OR" should be entered into the search boxes directly
        <dd><b>-</b> Incompatibility of the "Search History" function <br>   (There are no compatibility of the search history between the current ARSA and the new ARSA)</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dl>
<dd>We apologize for your inconvenience. Thank you for your understanding and cooperation.
<dd>
    <font color="#ff0000">The service was resumed. Please try the upgraded ARSA. Thank you for your cooperation. (at 20:00, October 26)</font>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</dd>
</html>
