---
layout: simple
title: ' Apology for the defect of some search results in getentry '
category: news
db:
  - ddbj


date: 2008-06-06T00:00:00
lang: en
---

<html><a href="http://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html">getentry</a> is the entry retrieval system by accession numbers etc., which is provided by DDBJ via <a href="http://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html">WWW</a> and <a href="/search/explain/getentry_exp-e.html">E-mail</a> servers.<br>In the case of DAD ( DDBJ Amino Sequence Database ) retrieval with Protein ID in getentry,<br>there were some search results in which a part of the entry was not displayed properly during the following period.<br>Datails are as follows;

<ul>
    <li><b>Condition : </b> Displayed unsuitable results under the following conditions.<dd>When you specify " Protein ID " as " ID ", " DAD ( DDBJ Amino Sequence Database )" as " Database " in getentry,<br>there were some entries of setting the CDS Feature with qualifier " /translation " below the CDS Feature with qualifier " /psuedo " in the range of CDS Feature.<br>The hyperlink function on the Protein ID in the DDBJ flat file which contained the above " /translation " qualifier doesn't work properly.<br>Furthermore, the DAD retrieval with those Protein ID did not display suitable results.
    <li><b>Affected Period : </b>Feb. 27, 2007 to May. 22, 2008</li>
    <li>
    <li><b>Accesion numbers at DDBJ entries corresponding with the affected Protein ID : </b>(<a href="/files/pdf/AccList.txt">-&gt; See the list </a>)</li>
    <li><b>Measure : </b>The defect has already been fixed and the service works normally.</li>
    </dd>
    </li>
</ul>
<dd>We kindly request users to conduct their search again if you have used the corresponding entries.
<dd>We sincerely apologize for your inconveniece.</dd>
</dd>
</html>
