---
layout: simple
title: ' Apology for the defective results of CON entries in getentry '
category: news
db:
  - ddbj


date: 2008-06-20T00:00:00+09:00
lang: en
---

<html> <a href="http://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html">getentry</a> is the entry retrieval system by accession numbers etc., which is provided by DDBJ via <a href="http://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html">WWW</a> and <a href="/search/explain/getentry_exp-e.html">E-mail</a> servers.<br>In the case of sequence display of CON entry, We found there were two problems to display sequences of CON entries.<br>Datails are as follows;

<p></p>

<ul><br>
    <li><b>Condition : </b><br>

        <ol><br>
            <li>When a cited piece entry is described with "complement" operator in a CON entry, the sequence span cited from the piece entry is processed as the forward strand.<br>It should be processed into the complementary sequence.<font color="#ff0000">   Fixed ( Jul. 3, 2008 ) </font><br></li>
            <li>When the piece entry of retrieved CON entry containes a CON entry, it can not be processed correctly.<a href="/whatsnew/whatsnew2009-e.html">
                    <font color="#ff0000">   Fixed ( Jan. 16, 2009 ) </font>
                </a><br></li>
        </ol><br>
    </li>
    <li><b>Affected parts : </b><br>We have provided two types of methods to get the conjugated sequences of CON entries; display on browser and FTP. However, neither of two methods works properly in the case of retrieving CON entries under the following conditions.<br>

        <ol><br>
            <li>When you specify "total nt seq FASTA" as <a href="/services/getentry-e.html#output">output format</a>, and "www" , "E-Mail" or "FTP" as <a href="/services/getentry-e.html#result">Results</a>.<br></li>
            <li>When you specify "Flat file (DDBJ)" as <a href="/services/getentry-e.html#output">output format</a>, and "www" as <a href="/services/getentry-e.html#result">Results</a>.<br>Then, click each of following links in the result;<br>

                <ul><br>
                    <li>transfer all the DNA sequences separately in FASTA format <br></li>
                    <li>display all the DNA sequences separately in FASTA format <br> <br></li>
                    <li>transfer the combined DNA sequence in FASTA format (Constructed sequence according to CONTIG line)<br> <br></li>
                    <li>display the combined DNA sequence in FASTA format (constructed sequence according to CONTIG line)<br></li>
                </ul>
            </li>
        </ol><br>
    </li>
    <li><b>Affected services : </b>getentry, ARSA, and Web API (GetEntry)<br></li>
    <li><b>Measure : </b>Recovery work takes a little longer. We will provide an announcement on this page as soon as the problems are solved.<br><br></li>
</ul>
<dd>We sincerely apologize for your inconveniece.</dd>
</html>
