---
layout: simple
title: 'Validator implementation to the DDBJ BioSample submission system (16th, March, 2018)'
category: news
db:
  - ddbj
  - bioproject
  - biosample
  - dra

tags:
  - Announcement

date: 2018-03-14T12:00:00+09:00
retire_time: 2018-03-14T12:00:00+09:00
lang: en
---

<p>DDBJ BioSample has implemented validator to the submission system to improve the submission process while keeping quality of submitted records on 16th, March.</p>

<p>In the ATTRIBUTES tab of the D-way BioSample submission system, the validator automatically checks uploaded text file describing sample attributes. Please revise and re-upload your sample records according to the error and warning messages displayed. Submitters can not submit the BioSamples until all errors are resolved.</p>

<p>Consistencies between the selected package and taxonomic lineage, the organism and taxonomy id are checked by using semantic web technologies utilizing the RDF version of the taxonomy database.</p>

<p>For rules and messages of the validator, please see <a href="https://www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/biosample/validation-e.html">Validation page</a>. Upon the validator release, two points are changed.</p>

<h3 id="novel-organism">Novel organism</h3>

<p>To submit a novel organism not registered in <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/taxonomy">NCBI Taxonomy</a>, please <a href="/contact-e.html">request the BioSample team</a>to register a novel organism to the Taxonomy database in advance to BioSample submission.</p>

<p>Within 2-3 weeks, <a href="/biosample/attribute-e.html?all=all#taxonomy_id">the mandatory taxonomy_id attribute</a> will be made optional. After this migration, when submitting BioSample with novel organism, please enter a proposed name in the organism field and leave the taxonomy_id empty.</p>

<h3 id="novel-organism">Differentiating sample attributes</h3>

<p>To distinguish samples in structural way, please differentiate samples with distinct attributes other than sample name, title, bioproject_id and description. <a href="/biosample/validation-e.html#BS_R0024">validation rule: BS_R0024</a></p>
