---
layout: simple
title: 10th Apr. update <span class="red">[Some services resumed] </span> (14th February - mid-March) Suspension of the services due to the NIG Supercomputer replacement
category: news
db:
  - ddbj
  - bioproject
  - biosample
  - dra
  - gea
  - jga
  - agd
  - top

tags:
  - Maintenance

date: 2025-02-06T09:00:00+09:00
retire_time: 2025-04-30T09:00:00+09:00
lang: en
---

<span class="red">[2025-04-10 13:00(JST)]</span>
The validation process for DRA/GEA remains suspended. Therefore, even if you start data file validation in DRA/GEA, the status will remain as "Validation in Progress." We are aiming to resume the validation process as soon as possible after April 14. We sincerely apologize for the inconvenience caused.


The following systems have resumed service.
- DDBJ Nucleotide Sequence Submission System
- MSS form
- D-way
  - BioProject
  - BioSample
  - DRA
  - GEA
  - GEA reviewer access
  - DRA/GEA/MSS/MetaboBank SFTP (ftp-private.ddbj.nig.ac.jp) services
- JGA
- Metabobank

**Scheduled Resumption of Other Services**
- AGD (sometime after April 14)
- Metabobank Search (sometime after April 14)

---

We are sorry to announce that our “Service suspension period due to NIG supercomputer replacement” still continues for many services. I sincerely apologize for the inconvenience and troubles caused to all users.   
    
The suspension is due to a setting failure of our new supercomputer system, and we plan to resume all services from April 3rd. We will also inform the status of our web services upon restarting.

---
<span class="red">[2025-04-03]</span>
The following systems have resumed service.
- NBDC Application System
- NBDC Group Sharing Database Application System

<span class="red">[2025-03-24]</span> The following systems have resumed service.
- DDBJ FTP service

<span class="red">[2025-03-18]</span> The following systems have resumed service.
- DDBJ Search

<span class="red">[2025-03-14 17:00]</span>
The following systems have resumed service.
- getentry
- ARSA
- DFAST
- DDBJ Group Cloud service

---
The NIG Supercomputer System will be unavailable 21th February (Fri) - 1st March (Sat).    
[Announcement Regarding the Replacement of the Supercomputer](https://sc.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/en/blog/2024-12-05-supercomputer_replacement_announcement/)

Accordingly, submission, search and analysis services of Bioinformation and DDBJ Center will be unavailable during the following period.            

Please note that the schedule may vary depending on the situation.     
Updates on schedule changes and service resumption details will be provided on this page and [DDBJ X](https://x.com/DDBJ_topics) as necessary.
    
We apologize for any inconvenience and kindly ask for your understanding and cooperation.

**Schedule (JST)：14th February(Fri) 17:00 - mid-March**
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>DDBJ Nucleotide Sequence Submission System
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>MSS form
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>D-way
  - BioProject
  - BioSample
  - DRA
  - GEA
  - GEA reviewer access
  - DRA/GEA/MSS/MetaboBank SFTP (ftp-private.ddbj.nig.ac.jp) services
  - Because of the D-way account system downtime, the following services will be unavailable.
    - D-way New account creation
    - D-way Account information update
    - D-way Password change
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>DRA validation
- GEA validation
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>JGA
- AGD
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>Metabobank
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span> NBDC Application System
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span> NBDC Group Sharing Database Application System

**Schedule (JST)：19th February (Wed) afternoon - On or after 3rd March (Mon)**
- Search service
  - <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>getentry
  - <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>ARSA
  - <span class="red">[Resumed]</span> DDBJ Search 
  - Metabobank Search
- Analysis service
  - <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>DFAST
  - <span class="red">[Resumed]</span>DDBJ Group Cloud service

**Schedule (JST)：21st February (Fri) - 1st March (Sat)**
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span> DDBJ FTP service
- <span class="red">[Resumed]</span> NIG supercomputer system
