---
layout: simple
title: June 13 Update&colon; Entries from ENA and GenBank during a specific period are not being reflected in getentry
category: news
db:
  - ddbj
  - top

tags:
  - Maintenance

date: 2025-05-12T01:00:00+09:00
retire_time: 2025-06-30T09:00:00+09:00
lang: en
---

#### 2025-6-18 Status update

Releasing status of the entries from ENA and GenBank that were previously unavailable through getentry.

- Conventional (non-bulk) entries:
    - ENA ... Completed
    - GenBank ... Completed

- Bulk entries:
    - TSA ... Completed
    - TLS ... Completed
    - WGS of 4-letter prefix ... Completed
    - WGS of 6-letter prefix
        - ENA ... Releasing entries dated from February 19th through March 31th, 2025 has been finished. Releasing the entries of April, 2025 is in progress.
        - GenBank ... Releasing entries dated from February 19th through April 30th, 2025 has been finished. Releasing the entries of May, 2025 is in progress.
    - WGS of TPA ... Completed


#### We have identified an issue where entries published during a following period from ENA and GenBank have not been incorporated into getentry.

The affected entries are as follows:
- Conventional (non-bulk) entries:
    - ENA: October 1st, 2024 - April 8th, 2025
    - GenBank: February 19th, 2025 - April 8th, 2025

- Bulk entries (WGS, TSA, and TLS):
    - ENA and GenBank: February 19th, 2025 - Now

We have included the missing entries in our daily publication processing. However, due to the large number of affected entries, it will take approximately 2 months for these entries to become visible in getentry. During this time, the DDBJNEW*.gz file size at 
[https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/public/ddbj_database/ddbjnew/](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/public/ddbj_database/ddbjnew/) will be larger than usual.

We sincerely apologize for any inconvenience this may cause.
