---
layout: simple
title: Data release for new sequence listings of patent application in ST.26
category: news
db:
  - ddbj
  - top

tags:
  - Announcement

date: 2026-05-01T09:00:00+09:00
retire_time: 2026-05-14T10:00:00+09:00
lang: en
---

Data release for new sequence listings of patent application in ST.26
DNA data bank of Japan (DDBJ) has been building a close cooperative relationship with Japan patent office (JPO). DDBJ have been collaborating with JPO, European Patent Office (EPO), United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) on the development of a new sequence listings for ST.26 format since April 2013. In July 2022, the ST.26 format was fully transitioned to all patent offices worldwide.
DDBJ has finished distribution ST.25 data transferred from JPO in December 2025. We start distributing JPO ST.26 data from April 2026.

### Changing points

* In JPO ST.26 flat file format, it will be changed DEFINITION line and AUTHORS of REFERENCE.
It will be set as blank on AUTHORS line in ST.26 all data.

Example  
<pre>
DEFINITION JP 2026123456-A/10: Rapid Detection Method for Genetic Diversity  

REFERENCE 1 (bases 1 to 85)  
AUTHORS  
TITLE Rapid Detection Method for Genetic Diversity  
JOURNAL Patent: JP 2026123456-A 10 04-SEP-2025;  
DNA Data Bank of Japan  
</pre>

* In case of lacking inventor title in English, it will be set the fixed value and publication number. This value will also described on DEFINITION.

Example  
<pre>
DEFINITION Patent application sequence for JP 2026123456-A/10.  

REFERENCE 1 (bases 1 to 85)  
AUTHORS  
TITLE Patent application sequence for JP 2026123456-A/10  
JOURNAL Patent: JP 2026123456-A 10 04-SEP-2025;  
DNA Data Bank of Japan  
</pre>

Example  
<pre>
REFERENCE 1 (bases 1 to 85)  
AUTHORS  
TITLE Rapid Detection Method for Genetic Diversity  
JOURNAL Patent: JP 2026123456-A 10 04-SEP-2025;  
        Applicants [Refer to the patent publication]  
</pre>

* It will be changed as setting sequence number which is same number on ST.26 sequence listings. This number will be set on describing after publication number on DEFINITION, KEYWORDS, REFERENCE/JOURNAL, and number on COMMENT/PS line. Therefore this number enables direct access to the corresponding data when referencing the sequence listings.

Publication number format: JP/WO publication number-A/sequence number  

### Accession number format for ST.26 amino acid data

JPO amino acid (AA) data is started new format of accession number by assigning three letters prefix and seven-digit numbers.

Prefix: ZAA  
Number: 0000001-9999999  
Example: ZAA0000001  

### Data aquisiotion

JPO ST.26 data is searchable as follows.

getentry for accession number  
[https://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html](https://getentry.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top-e.html)  

ARSA for keyword  
[https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/arsa/quick_search?lang=en](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/arsa/quick_search?lang=en)  

DDBJ release data for JPO nucleotide data  
[https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/public/ddbj_database/ddbj/](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/public/ddbj_database/ddbj/)  

Cumulated AA data for JPO nucleotide data  
[https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/public/ddbj_database/patent/](https://ddbj.nig.ac.jp/public/ddbj_database/patent/)  

