---
layout: tabbed_indexed_content
service_name: Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive
title: Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive
category: jga
current_tab: home
lang: en
---

## Introduction  {#introduction}

The Japanese Genotype-phenotype Archive (JGA) is a service for permanent
archiving and sharing of all types of individual-level genetic and
de-identified phenotypic data resulting from biomedical research
projects. The JGA contains exclusive data collected from individuals
whose consent agreements authorize data release only for specific
research use or to bona fide researchers. Strict protocols govern how
information is managed, stored and distributed by the JGA. Once
processed, all data are encrypted. Users can contact the JGA team from
[here](/contact-ddbj-e.html).  
JGA services are provided in collaboration with [National Bioscience
Database Center (NBDC)](http://biosciencedbc.jp/en/) of [Japan Science
and Technology Agency](http://www.jst.go.jp/EN/index.html).

## Data access  {#access}

The JGA implements access-granting policy whereby the decisions of who
will be granted access to the data resides with the
[JST-NBDC](http://humandbs.biosciencedbc.jp/). The users apply for data
access directly to the [NBDC](http://humandbs.biosciencedbc.jp/) and the
JGA will only facilitate secure access to the data once the information
of a successful application process has been passed from the NBDC to the
JGA.

## Data submission  {#submission}

The JGA accepts only de-identified data approved by JST-NBDC ([Data
submission of human subjects research](/policies-e.html#human)). The
users apply for data submission directly to the
[NBDC](http://humandbs.biosciencedbc.jp/) and the JGA will only accept
and process submissions once the information of a successful application
process has been passed from the NBDC to the JGA. Prior to data
submission, the submitters should [contact the JGA](/contact-ddbj-e.html). A
separate notification will then be sent to the submitter including the
instructions of how to upload the data into JGA.

After data submission the JGA team will process the data into databases
and archive the original data files. The accepted data types include
manufacturer-specific raw data formats from the array-based and new
sequencing platforms. The processed data such as the genotype and
structural variants or any summary level statistical analyses from the
original study authors are stored in databases. The JGA also accepts and
distributes any phenotype data associated with the samples. For other
human biological data, please contact [the NBDC human data ethical
committee](http://humandbs.biosciencedbc.jp/).

